# Getting Started

## Downloading the wallet

The most recent ERA wallet release can be [found here.](https://github.com/EraNetwork/Era/releases)

## Installing

### Installing on Windows

Extract the .zip file (`era-qt-win32...release.zip`)

### Installing on Mac

Extract the .zip file (`era-qt-mac...release.zip`)

### Installing on Linux

- [ ] Finsh linux tutorial

## Synchronizing the Blockchain

Running `ERA` will connect to the network and begin downloading and verifying the ERA blockchain.  
Because the blockchain is constantly growing, the file size is always increasing, and *ERA* must verify each block (CPU intensive) it may take some time for the blockchain to sync.

### Windows

Run the `ERA.exe` executable extracted from the Windows zip:

### Mac

Run the `ERA` binary extracted from the Mac zip.

### Linux

- [ ] Finsh linux tutorial

### Creating a Wallet

Upon first launch of the wallet program, a private key and wallet.dat file containing said private key will be generated, there is not work needed on the users part.

### Viewing Wallet Address

Select the *Receive* tab in the ERA wallet program, click on the address autogenerated for you, then click the *Copy Address* button at the bottom of the wallet.  You have not copied your private key, use this when people want to send you coins.

### Exporting Keys

In order to access your private key theres a few steps you will need to take.
1. Have your ERA wallet open (duh)
2. Unlock your wallet if it is locked. Unlock your wallet by clicking the *Settings* tab at the top of the wallet, then click *Unlock Wallet*, but make sure when you unlock your wallet the small tick box saying *Staking only* is unticked.
3. On the top bar of the wallet select: Help, then Debug window, and now within the popup click on the *Console* option at the very top.  You may now type `dumpprivkey <youreraaddress>`, the console will now print out your wallets private key.
4. Save your private key to a safe location where it cannot be accessed from the internet. NEVER show this key to anyone else, with this key anyone can have access to all your ERA.

